Obama elected as lone black senator | World news | The Guardian Turn autoplay off Turn autoplay on Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off Jump to content [s] Jump to site navigation [0] Jump to search [4] Terms and conditions [8] Mobile site Sign in Register Text larger ∑ smaller About us About us Contact us Press office Guardian Print Centre Guardian readers' editor Observer readers' editor Terms of service Privacy policy Advertising guide Digital archive Digital edition Guardian Weekly Buy Guardian and Observer photos Subscribe Today's paper The Guardian G2 features Comment and debate Editorials, letters and corrections Obituaries Other lives Sport MediaGuardian Subscribe Zeitgeist Today's hot topics guardian.co.uk UK and World news User comments Web News Sport Comment Culture Business Money Life & style Travel Environment TV Blogs Data Mobile Offers Jobs News World news Obama elected as lone black senator Tweet this Gary Younge in Akron The Guardian, Wednesday 3 November 2004 04.00 GMT Barack Obama yesterday confirmed his status as the rising star of the Democratic party after coasting to victory in Illinois to become the only black US senator. Mr Obama, who delivered the most memorable keynote speech of the Democratic national convention in August, easily beat conservative Republican, Alan Keyes. Exit polls suggested Mr Obama, 43, would trounce Mr Keyes with around 70% of the vote - a considerable win given that the contested seat was vacated by a Republican. The race had attracted considerable attention because both candidates were black - a rarity in a contest for the Senate, which has only had three black senators in the post civil war period. Mr Obama's victory was helped by the mishaps of his opponents. In June he held a double digit leader over his previous Republican challenger, Jack Ryan, when Mr Ryan's campaign collapsed because of a sex scandal. In a desperate bid to find a replacement the Republicans found Mr Keyes, a deeply religious conservative who is anti-gay and anti-abortion and who was unable to reach beyond a narrow, conservative base. But Mr Obama also made his own luck. Running on an impressive record as a state senator with an ability to bridge gulfs of race and partisanship, his affable manner quickly won over wary Democrats to gain him the primary. As one of the few Democrats likely to win a seat vacated by a Republican he was propelled to the limelight at the Democratic party convention. The son of a Kenyan father and white American mother, who was raised in Hawaii and Indonesia, he has sold himself as a man capable of transcending racial boundaries while preserving strong roots in black Chicago, where he lives. Printable version Send to a friend Share Clip Contact us larger | smaller Email Close Recipient's email address Your first name Your surname Add a note (optional) Your IP address will be logged Share Close Short link for this page: http://gu.com/p/ztdt Digg reddit Google Bookmarks Twitter del.icio.us StumbleUpon Newsvine livejournal Facebook Mixx it! Contact us Close Report errors or inaccuracies: reader@guardian.co.uk Letters for publication should be sent to: letters@guardian.co.uk If you need help using the site: userhelp@guardian.co.uk Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000 Advertising guide License/buy our content World news US elections 2004 ∑ United States ∑ Barack Obama ∑ US politics ∑ Illinois See also 27 Jul 2004 Rising star to woo voters with upbeat keynote speech 30 Dec 2008 Rod Blagojevich names Roland Burris as replacement for Barack Obama in Illinois Senate seat 30 Dec 2008 Rogue Illinois governor Blagojevich names Obama Senate successor 10 Dec 2008 Obama calls for Blagojevich resignation as ABC suggests Jackson role in scandal Printable version Send to a friend Share Clip Contact us Article history Email Close Recipient's email address Your first name Your surname Add a note (optional) Your IP address will be logged Share Close Short link for this page: http://gu.com/p/ztdt Digg reddit Google Bookmarks Twitter del.icio.us StumbleUpon Newsvine livejournal Facebook Mixx it! Contact us Close Report errors or inaccuracies: reader@guardian.co.uk Letters for publication should be sent to: letters@guardian.co.uk If you need help using the site: userhelp@guardian.co.uk Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000 Advertising guide License/buy our content About this article Close Obama elected as lone black senator This article was published on guardian.co.uk at 04.00 GMT on Wednesday 3 November 2004. On World news Most viewed Zeitgeist Latest Last 24 hours 1.† Two Britons shot dead during Florida holiday in notorious gang area 2. IMF clashes with Osborne over refusal to back eurozone bailout 3. ArsËne Wenger fumes after Arsenal blow their title chances 4. Nigel de Jong says half-time row inspired Manchester City at Wembley 5. Marina Lutz interview: The sins of my father More most viewed Last 24 hours Patients denied key treatments due to NHS cost-cutting, surgeons warn London Marathon ñ in pictures Arsenal's title hopes fade after Liverpool's late, late equaliser Ian McKellen leads challenge to Tate over LS Lowry 'exclusion' Arsenal v Liverpool - in pictures More zeitgeist What is Zeitgeist? Zeitgeist is an experiment in showing trending news, topics and articles from the Guardian. Find out more in our blog post. Last 24 hours 1.† Palm Sunday celebrations around the world 2. Two Britons shot dead during Florida holiday in notorious gang area 3. Japan tsunami survivors: defiance and dignity amid the wreckage 4. Soy sauce company symbolises Japan's determination after the tsunami 5. Rebuilding a business after the Japan tsunami ñ video All today's stories Our correspondents on Twitter Follow all the top stories of the day on Twitter with the Guardian's world news team Auto update every minute On | Off taniabranigan: Ai Weiwei arrest protests at Chinese embassies worldwide http://t.co/VYtDbZh via @guardian about 51 minutes ago taniabranigan: New breed of gagging order could send journalists to jail, MP claims http://t.co/g5XycgN via @guardian about 55 minutes ago taniabranigan: by @justinmccurry RT @andrewtehtweets: Seven stories to warm you up on a dreary Monday morning http://bit.ly/fSZzNz about 1 hour, 10 minutes ago ï†Read more tweets from our foreign news team ï†Follow all our correspondents on a Twitter list Bestsellers from the Guardian shop Mondaine Swiss Railway Watch The Mondaine Swiss Railway watch is a recognised design classic. This Swiss watch is made entirely from recycled materials and is suitable for men or women. Several designs available. From: £89.99 Visit the Guardian reader offers shop See all offers and services from the Guardian Latest news on guardian.co.uk News Patients 'denied key NHS treatments due to cuts' This week's bestsellers 1.† Chicken Coops for the Soul by Julia Hollander £6.99 2.† November by Sean OBrien £8.99 3.† Good Book by A C Grayling £25.00 4.† New and Collected Poems 1931-2001 by Czeslaw Milosz £17.99 5.† Pale King by David Foster Wallace £20.00 Search the Guardian bookshop Search Sponsored feature Find the latest jobs in your sector: Arts & heritage Charities Education Environment Government Graduate Health Marketing & PR Media Sales Senior executive Social care Browse all jobs Business Correspondent Moscow, Russia | Unspecified RUSSIA TODAY Related information World news US elections 2004 ∑ United States ∑ Barack Obama ∑ US politics ∑ Illinois Blagojevich names Roland Burris as Obama's Senate successor 30 Dec 2008 Rod Blagojevich today named former state attorney general Roland Burris to Barack Obama's former Senate seat, thumbing his nose at state and national Democrats who seek the Illinois governor's removal from office 11 Dec 2008 Obama to release details of any contact between his staff and Rod Blagojevich 10 Dec 2008 'A sad day for Illinois' 15 Dec 2008 Obama's office to delay release of staff's Blagojevich contacts 3 Jun 2008 AP: Obama wins nomination Barack Obama: 'I was appalled and disappointed' 12 Dec 2008 President-elect Barack Obama again distances himself from the seat-for-sale scandal involving Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich More video Hot topics Ivory Coast Japan disaster Libya Muammar Gaddafi Richard Trevithick License/buy our content | Privacy policy | Terms & conditions | Advertising guide | Accessibility | A-Z index | Inside guardian.co.uk blog | About guardian.co.uk | Join our dating site today guardian.co.uk © Guardian News and Media Limited 2011
Barack Obama elected next President of the United States after defeating John McCain - Telegraph Accessibility links Skip to article Skip to navigation Advertisement Monday 18 April 2011 Telegraph.co.uk Home News Sport Finance Comment Blogs Culture Travel Lifestyle Fashion Tech Jobs Dating Offers UK World Politics Obituaries Royal Wedding Earth Science Health News Education Celebrities Weird News News Blogs Libya Japan USA US Politics Asia China Central Asia Europe Australasia Middle East Africa South America Barack Obama Barack Obama elected next President of the United States after defeating John McCain Barack Obama has won a historic victory after appearing to have collected enough electoral votes to defeat Senator John McCain and become the first black President of the United States. 460 259 TelegraphPlayer-3383421 Link to this video By Toby Harnden in Chicago 4:15AM GMT 05 Nov 2008 Mr Obama, 47, whose electoral landslide also expanded his party's majorities in both chambers of Congress, will be sworn in as the 44th president of the United States on Jan 20, 2009. The Democratic nominee was projected as the winner in the swing states of Pennsylvania, New Hampshire and Ohio, all but dooming the chances of his Republican opponent. The loss of Ohio, which gave President George W Bush a narrow victory in 2004, was a bitter blow for the 72-year-old former Vietnam prisoner of war, and almost certainly snuffed out his presidential ambitions. Networks also projected Mr Obama as the winner in California; Hawaii; Oregon; Washington; Vermont; Massachusetts; Illinois; Maine; Connecticut; Delaware; Rhode Island; New Jersey; Maryland; Wisconsin; Michigan; New York and the District of Columbia. Mr McCain was projected the winner in Idaho; Kentucky; South Carolina; Oklahoma; Tennessee; Alabama; Arkansas; Wyoming; North Dakota and Georgia, all expected to be comfortable wins for him. Related Articles McCain praises Obama in graceful concession speech 05 Nov 2008 Bush congratulates Obama on 'awesome night' 05 Nov 2008 Barack Obama's US Election victory speech: full text 05 Nov 2008 Barack Obama's victory speech: Full text 05 Nov 2008 John McCain concedes: Full text of speech 05 Nov 2008 Japanese fishing village of Obama celebrates 05 Nov 2008 David Axelrod, Mr Obama's chief strategist, told CNN that "good things" were happening for the Democrat and trumpeted the result in Pennsylvania: "We like what we see around the country. We like the turnout. We like the early returns." An aide to Mr McCain told CBS that "at this point we need a miracle". In what was shaping up to become a dismal night for Republicans, they lost Senate contests in New Hampshire, North Carolina and Virginia, and were battling to hold on to at least another five seats in the 100-member body. A win for Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell in Kentucky was one of the few bright spots of the evening for Republicans, and kept alive their hopes of preventing a 60 to 40 majority for Democrats, which would make it impossible to block legislation without some Democratic help. Obama supporters were already beginning to celebrate as they gathered in Grant Park in Chicago, where the young Illinois senator was preparing to give what his advisers anticipated would be a victory speech. With just over half the votes counted in Indiana, a conservative state that has voted Republican since 1964, Mr Obama was just three percentage points behind and performing much better than expected in areas Mr McCain was counting on. Virginia also appeared very close, with Mr McCain leading by one percentage point with 70 per cent of the vote counted and the Republican underperforming badly in conservative rural areas. A win there for Mr Obama would almost certainly signal a convincing overall victory for him. The Democrat was also leading in Florida, won by President George W Bush in 2000 and 2004. One early disappointment for Mr Obama, however, was that black voters made up just 13 per cent of all voters, only a narrow increase over 2004. The black vote was unchanged in Virginia, but up by five percentage points to 30 per cent in Georgia, a target state for Mr Obama. Six out of 10 voters said in an Associated Press exit poll that the economy was the most important issue facing the country, a concern Mr Obama has made the centrepiece of his campaign. Officials said the long queues and heavy early voting in more than 30 states pointed towards a turnout of between 130 million and 140 million people, up from 121 million four years ago, and 65 per cent of those registered. This would represent the highest percentage turnout since 1908. Mr Obama's campaign, which heavily outgunned Mr McCain's in terms of the number of volunteers, fund-raising and enthusiasm had poured immense resources into registering new voters. High turnout was a key sign that David Plouffe, Mr Obama's campaign manager, had succeeded. As well as facing the likely loss of the White House, Republicans, who surrendered control of both houses of Congress two years ago, feared the loss of about 30 more seats in the House of Representatives. Democratic gains of up to nine seats in the Senate would give Democrats the 20-seat majority they need to withstand Republican filibusters and herald a new period of untrammeled one-party rule in Washington. A victory for Mr Obama, who began his bid for the White House nearly two years ago as an unlikely outsider, would be a landmark in the long struggle for racial equality in America. When he was born in Hawaii to a black Kenyan father and a white mother from Kansas in 1961, many American states banned interracial marriages. Four years later, blacks in many Southern states were disenfranchised. McCain aides said they were "stoic" and "realistic", pointing out that Republicans had faced a very tough electoral environment because of President George W Bush's unpopularity and the ailing economy. The mood inside Mr Obama's camp, in contrast, was one of controlled ebullience with the contender playing a game of basketball ñ a now traditional election day activity for him ñ with old friends from Chicago. Mr Obama, the overwhelming front-runner in opinion polls, and Mr McCain, who would have been the oldest man ever to be first elected to the presidency, cast their ballots in their home cities of Chicago and Phoenix respectively. People cheered Mr Obama as he held up a validation slip after voting with his wife and their daughters Malia, nine, and Sasha, seven. "The journey ends but voting with my daughters, that was a big deal," he said. Mr McCain voted with his wife Cindy at a church before flying to Colorado and New Mexico for final rallies. "I'm very happy with where we are," he said before voting. "We always do best when I'm a bit of an underdog." X Share & bookmark Delicious Facebook Google Messenger Reddit Twitter Digg Fark LinkedIn Google Buzz StumbleUpon Y! Buzz What are these? Share: Share † † † † Tweet http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/barackobama/3383346/Barack-Obama-elected-next-President-of-the-United-States-after-defeating-John-McCain.html Telegraph Barack Obama News ª World News ª US Election 2008 ª Republicans ª Democrats ª In news † The Obamas in Latin America † First Lady of healthy living †† Obama drops a line to astronauts on ISS 9/11 WikiLeaks cables in full † Gun control in the US X Share & bookmark Delicious Facebook Google Messenger Reddit Twitter Digg Fark LinkedIn Google Buzz StumbleUpon Y! Buzz What are these? Share: † † † Tweet Advertisement Advertisement Latest Obama approval ratings Advertisement sponsored features Loading News Most Viewed TODAY PAST WEEK PAST MONTH Two Britons shot dead in Florida named A floundering presidency heading for a fall? Barack Obama hits rock bottom in latest Gallup poll Secrets put on internet in Whitehall blunders Libya: rebels say they are being armed by 'friendly countries' Libya crisis: Gaddafi using schoolboy conscripts on front line Jesus crucifixion nails 'found' Leading actor's gagging order over affair with Rooney prostitute First homosexual caveman found French burka ban: police arrest two veiled women Jelly bean resembling Kate Middleton to fetch ?500 Libya: live Silvio Berlusconi's 'bunga bunga' pictures revealed EU to ban cars from cities by 2050 First homosexual caveman found Libya: US fighter jet crash lands in field near Benghazi Advertisement Classified Advertising World Travel Property Shopping Loading MORE FROM TELEGRAPH.CO.UK † TELEGRAPH JOBS Latest jobs Search thousands of job vacancies: accountancy, tax, banking, construction, engineering, education, healthcare, IT, local government, sales, telecoms and more. Search Now TELEGRAPH JOBS † Study from anywhere: work, home or on the move TELEGRAPH JOBS † A guide to the coalitionís spring clean of employment law TELEGRAPH JOBS † Search for Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals Jobs TELEGRAPH JOBS † Pfizer: Animal health business consultant Back to top Hot Topics Libya Royal Wedding FA Cup Formula One London Marathon More... News Politics World News Obituaries Travel Health Jobs Sport Football Olympics Cricket Culture Motoring Dating Finance Personal Finance Economics Markets Fashion Property Puzzles Comment Blogs My Telegraph Letters Technology Gardening Telegraph Journalists Contact Us Privacy Policy Advertising A to Z Tickets Announcements Reader Prints Follow Us Apps Epaper Promotions Subscriber Syndication © Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2011 Terms and Conditions Today's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/barackobama/3383346/Barack-Obama-elected-next-President-of-the-United-States-after-defeating-John-McCain.html
Does Barack Obama want to be re-elected in 2012?  - Telegraph Accessibility links Skip to article Skip to navigation Advertisement Monday 18 April 2011 Telegraph.co.uk Home News Sport Finance Comment Blogs Culture Travel Lifestyle Fashion Tech Jobs Dating Offers UK World Politics Obituaries Royal Wedding Earth Science Health News Education Celebrities Weird News News Blogs Libya Japan USA US Politics Asia China Central Asia Europe Australasia Middle East Africa South America Barack Obama Does Barack Obama want to be re-elected in 2012? Few Americans consider themselves bigger than the presidency but Obama might be one of them. The man in the Oval Office, argues Toby Harnden, may already be preparing for a role as a post-president in a post-American world. Barack Obama may already be preparing for a role as a post-president in a post-American world.†Photo: AP By Toby Harnden 9:00PM BST 21 Aug 2010 Toby Harnden on Facebook | Follow Toby Harnden on Twitter Comments When David Plouffe, President Barack Obama's 2008 campaign manager, wrote recently that his former boss was "not concerned with his re-election", there was predictable scepticism. After all, it has long been a truism that every politician wants to cling to power and a reality that presidential campaigns are planned years in advance. Pronouncements about not looking at polls and concentrating on getting things done are, moreover, standard fare from poll-driven, election-obsessed politicians and their apparatchiks. In this case, however, Plouffe may inadvertently be onto something. Almost everything Obama does these days suggests that he doesn't care much about being re-elected. Strange as it might seem, perhaps he wants to be a one-term president. Obama was elected in 2008 at an extraordinary moment in American politics. Suddenly, this charismatic figure, elected to the Senate without serious opposition in 2004 and without any executive experience, was catapulted into the White House. His presidential bid had been based on the power of his life story and his ability with the spoken word. Doubtless he was as surprised as anyone else that he pulled it off. Governing has been altogether more difficult for him and there are signs he is already tiring of it. Related Articles McCain survives anti-incumbent sentiment with move to the Right 25 Aug 2010 Obama's intervention on the so-called "Ground Zero mosque" issue is a case in point. There was no need for him to get involved - the Islamic community centre two blocks from the 9/11 site is unlikely to get built and there was no political advantage in his making a statement. What he said about religious freedom was typically Obama - high-minded, principled and legalistic. He is, after all, a former constitutional law professor. What his words lacked were any real empathy with what Americans felt and practical considerations about resolving the issue - never mind the political downside for him. Doubtless he has been advised to prove he is "connected" to ordinary Americans by doing things like be seen attending church and taking "regular" holidays. But Obama seems happy to act as a European-style secularist, vacation in Martha's Vineyard and send his daughters to one of America's most exclusive private schools. Obama does not suffer for self doubt. He has long seemed so convinced of his own virtue that to question his motives is illogical. Increasingly, his pronouncements carry the tone of one who believes those who disagree are stupid or bigoted. Before departing for Martha's Vineyard last week, Obama spent three days on the campaign trail raising money and support for Democratic mid-term election candidates. Don't give in to fear," he said in Milwaukee. "Let's reach for hope." It was a message that worked once but is unlikely to appeal this time, with America in the grip of a recession, unemployment still stubbornly close to 10 percent and blame-it-on-Bush rhetoric wearing very thin. Obama is, however, at his best in these settings. He has the crowd hanging on his every word and he is not dealing with grubby political realities or objectionable opponents. Perhaps they are a reminder for him of simpler times. They might also be a glimpse of the future. For Obama, the crowning moment of his presidency have been speeches abroad - the statement in Strasbourg that America had been "dismissive and arrogant", the address to the Muslim world from Cairo, the acceptance in Oslo of the Nobel Peace Prize. In Berlin in 2008, Obama cast himself as a "citizen of the world". He has dismissed the bedrock notion of American exceptionalism by describing it, also in Strasbourg, as little more than narrow patriotism. Elite opinion among liberal Ivy League types - of which Obama is the embodiment - holds that we are already living in a post-American world. There are few Americans who see themselves as bigger than the presidency but Obama could well be one of them. In 2008, Obama showed little appetite for the down-and-dirty aspects of political campaigning. When things got tough against Hillary Clinton, he all but conceded the final Democratic primaries and let the clock run out. Against John McCain, he developed a campaign plan and refused to deviate from it. McCain was level in the polls when the US economy imploded, handing Obama a relatively comfortable victory. Obama is the first black American president, an established author, multi-millionaire and acclaimed figure beyond American shores. It seems highly unlikely that Obama will decide not to run in 2012. But he might well be calculating that a embarking post-presidential role as the leading global thinker in the post-American world as a Republican successor enters office is more attractive than being sullied by the political compromises and manoeuvrings necessary to win. X Share & bookmark Delicious Facebook Google Messenger Reddit Twitter Digg Fark LinkedIn Google Buzz StumbleUpon Y! Buzz What are these? Share: Share † † † † Tweet http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/barackobama/7958031/Does-Barack-Obama-want-to-be-re-elected-in-2012.html Telegraph Barack Obama News ª World News ª North America ª USA ª Toby Harnden ª In news † The Obamas in Latin America † First Lady of healthy living †† Obama drops a line to astronauts on ISS 9/11 WikiLeaks cables in full † Gun control in the US X Share & bookmark Delicious Facebook Google Messenger Reddit Twitter Digg Fark LinkedIn Google Buzz StumbleUpon Y! Buzz What are these? Share: † † † Tweet Advertisement Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. blog comments powered by Disqus Advertisement Latest Obama approval ratings Advertisement sponsored features Loading News Most Viewed TODAY PAST WEEK PAST MONTH Two Britons shot dead in Florida named A floundering presidency heading for a fall? Barack Obama hits rock bottom in latest Gallup poll Secrets put on internet in Whitehall blunders Libya: rebels say they are being armed by 'friendly countries' Libya crisis: Gaddafi using schoolboy conscripts on front line Jesus crucifixion nails 'found' Leading actor's gagging order over affair with Rooney prostitute First homosexual caveman found French burka ban: police arrest two veiled women Jelly bean resembling Kate Middleton to fetch ?500 Libya: live Silvio Berlusconi's 'bunga bunga' pictures revealed EU to ban cars from cities by 2050 First homosexual caveman found Libya: US fighter jet crash lands in field near Benghazi Advertisement Classified Advertising World Travel Property Shopping Loading MORE FROM TELEGRAPH.CO.UK † TELEGRAPH JOBS Latest jobs Search thousands of job vacancies: accountancy, tax, banking, construction, engineering, education, healthcare, IT, local government, sales, telecoms and more. Search Now TELEGRAPH JOBS † Study from anywhere: work, home or on the move TELEGRAPH JOBS † A guide to the coalitionís spring clean of employment law TELEGRAPH JOBS † Search for Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals Jobs TELEGRAPH JOBS † Pfizer: Animal health business consultant Back to top Hot Topics Libya Royal Wedding FA Cup Formula One London Marathon More... News Politics World News Obituaries Travel Health Jobs Sport Football Olympics Cricket Culture Motoring Dating Finance Personal Finance Economics Markets Fashion Property Puzzles Comment Blogs My Telegraph Letters Technology Gardening Telegraph Journalists Contact Us Privacy Policy Advertising A to Z Tickets Announcements Reader Prints Follow Us Apps Epaper Promotions Subscriber Syndication © Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2011 Terms and Conditions Today's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/barackobama/7958031/Does-Barack-Obama-want-to-be-re-elected-in-2012.html
BBC NEWS | Americas | US Elections 2008 | Obama wins historic US election British Broadcasting CorporationHome Accessibility links Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Help Accessibility Help BBC News Updated every minute of every day One-Minute World News News Front Page Africa Americas Asia-Pacific Europe Middle East South Asia UK Business Health Science & Environment Technology Entertainment Also in the news ----------------- Video and Audio ----------------- Have Your Say In Pictures Country Profiles Special Reports Related BBC sites Sport Weather On This Day Editors' Blog BBC World Service Languages Espanol Brazil Caribbean More Page last updated at 13:42 GMT, Wednesday, 5 November 2008 E-mail this to a friend Printable version Obama wins historic US election Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play. Advertisement Barack Obama speaks to jubilant crowds at his victory rally in Chicago Democratic Senator Barack Obama has been elected the first black president of the United States, prompting celebrations across the country. "It's been a long time coming, but tonight... change has come to America," the president-elect told a jubilant crowd at a victory rally in Chicago. His rival John McCain accepted defeat, and called on his supporters to lend the next president their goodwill. The BBC's Justin Webb says the result will have a profound impact on the US. He says the American people have made two fundamental statements about themselves: that they are profoundly unhappy with the status quo, and that they are slamming the door on the country's racial past. Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play. McCain: 'We must work together' Mr Obama appeared with his family, and his running mate Joe Biden, before a crowd of tens of thousands in Grant Park, Chicago. Many people in the vast crowd, which stretched back far into the Chicago night, wept as Mr Obama spoke. "If there is anyone out there who still doubts that America is a place where all things are possible, who still wonders if the dream of our founders is alive in our time, who still questions the power of our democracy, tonight is your answer," he said. He said he had received an "extraordinarily gracious" call from Mr McCain. He praised the former Vietnam prisoner-of-war as a "brave and selfless leader". OBAMA GAINS Ohio New Mexico Iowa Virginia Florida Colorado Nevada Indiana Election results in full Democrats tighten Senate grip In pictures: Result reaction In quotes: US election reaction "He has endured sacrifices for America that most of us cannot begin to imagine," the victor said. He had warm words for his family, announcing to his daughters: "Sasha and Malia, I love you both more than you can imagine, and you have earned the new puppy that's coming with us to the White House." But he added: "Even as we celebrate tonight, we know the challenges that tomorrow will bring are the greatest of our lifetime - two wars, a planet in peril, the worst financial crisis in a century. "The road ahead will be long. Our climb will be steep. But America - I have never been more hopeful than I am tonight that we will get there." Hours after Mr Obama's victory was announced, crowds were still celebrating on the streets of Washington DC and Mr Obama's hometown of Chicago. From red to blue Mr Obama captured the key battleground states of Pennsylvania and Ohio, before breaking through the winning threshold of 270 electoral college votes at 0400 GMT, when projections showed he had also taken California and a slew of other states. Obama tells his supporters: "Change has come to America." In pictures Then came the news that he had also seized Florida, Virginia and Colorado - all of which voted Republican in 2004 - turning swathes of the map from red to blue. Projected results have yet to be announced for the states of North Carolina and Missouri, which are believed to be too close to call. However, at 1100 GMT, Mr Obama's share of the popular vote stood at 52.3%, compared with Mr McCain's 46.4%. The main developments include: Mr Obama is projected to have seized Ohio, New Mexico, Iowa, Virginia, Florida, Colorado, Indiana and Nevada - all Republican wins in 2004. He is also projected to have won: Vermont, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Delaware, Massachusetts, District of Columbia, Maryland, Connecticut, Maine, New Jersey, Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, New York, Rhode Island, California, Hawaii, Washington, Oregon. Mr McCain is projected to have won: Montana, Alaska, Kentucky, South Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Arkansas, Alabama, Kansas, North Dakota, Wyoming, Georgia, Louisiana, West Virginia, Texas, Mississippi, Utah, Arizona, Idaho, South Dakota. Turnout was reported to be extremely high - in some places "unprecedented". The Democrats increased their Senate majority by five seats, but fell short of the 60 needed to stop blocking tactics by Republicans. They also increased their majority in the House of Representatives. Exit polls suggest the economy was the major deciding factor for six out of 10 voters. Nine out of 10 said the candidates' race was not important to their vote, the Associated Press reported. Almost as many said age did not matter. Several states reported very high turnout. It was predicted 130 million Americans, or more, would vote - more than for any election since 1960. HAVE YOUR SAY I find myself strangely emotional about this. I want to go wake up my neighbours and hug them Amy Scullane, Boston Send us your comments Many people said they felt they had voted in a historic election - and for many African-Americans the moment was especially poignant. John Lewis, an activist in the civil rights era who was left beaten on an Alabama bridge 40 years ago, told Atlanta's Ebenezer Baptist Church: "This is a great night. It is an unbelievable night. It is a night of thanksgiving." Besides winning the presidency, the Democrats tightened their grip on Congress. The entire US House of Representatives and a third of US Senate seats were up for grabs. Send your video reactions to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or text them to 61124. If you have a large file you can upload here. Read the terms and conditions At no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Bookmark with: Delicious Digg reddit Facebook StumbleUpon What are these? E-mail this to a friend Printable version Print Sponsor FULL ELECTION COVERAGE Electoral College votes Winning post 270 Obama - Democrat 365 McCain - Republican 173 Select from the list below to view state level results. Select a state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming DC Full election results KEY STORIES World leaders hail Obama triumph Full text: Obama's victory speech Missouri loses bellwether status Six-term senator loses in Alaska Democrats score huge Congress win California bans same-sex marriage ANALYSIS Dream come true How Obama defied the past to shape the future The US election in figures The shape of Obama's new team Sarah Palin's next move Obama victory offers hope to Iran What next for the Republicans? Why Obama took the White House Challenges ahead Inside the presidential in-tray BLOGS HAVE YOUR SAY Barack Obama's new administration Readers' views from around the world VIDEO HIGHLIGHTS Obama makes YouTube address Obama and McCain vow to 'fix US' Obama's victory speech in full RELATED INTERNET LINKS John McCain's official website Barack Obama's official website The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW SHARED READ WATCHED/LISTENED Nationalists gain in Finland vote UK shale plans target cheap gas Oil threat to Ecuador's rainforest In pictures: Inside Scott's Hut Most popular now, in detail SHARED READ WATCHED/LISTENED Belly dance scuppers divorce deal World Bank chief warns of crisis Nationalists gain in Finland vote France stops Italy migrant trains US ambassador to Malta resigns Japan unveils nuclear crisis plan Dozens dead as tornadoes hit US Jonathan 'headed for Nigeria win' Two Britons shot dead in Florida Fry in Twitter joke jail 'pledge' Most popular now, in detail SHARED READ WATCHED/LISTENED Berlin's abandoned WWII bunkers 'Nine months' to deal with Japan crisis Fighting intensifies in Misrata The challenges of being a waitress at Oktoberfest Slave descendant returns to family land One-minute World News Rocketman flies in the skies Rebel casualties grow in Libya Rocketman 'proud' of flight Viewing the spectacular Northern Lights Most popular now, in detail FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS Gold rush China's thirst for iron ore a boon for Australia Coming home The volunteer army building homes for wounded heroes American Dream Inspirations which drove generations of immigrants Most Popular Now Most Popular Now | 20,929 people are reading stories on the site right now."; Skip to top PRODUCTS & SERVICES E-mail news Mobiles Widgets & Alerts News feeds Podcasts Mobile Search term: bbc.co.uk navigation News Sport Weather Travel TV Radio More CBBC CBeebies Comedy Food Health History Learning Music Science Nature Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Full A-Z of BBC sites Site links News Sources About BBC News BBC links About the BBC BBC Help Contact Us Accessibility Help Terms of Use Jobs Privacy & Cookies Advertise With Us © 2011 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
Female First Forum ï View topic - Obama elected as President Love & Sex Find out more Dating Relationships Weddings Agony Aunts Sexy Stories Community Discussion Board Quick Chat Celebrities Find out more Celebrity Gossip Entertainment Gossip Royal Family Celebrity Interviews Photo Gallery Celebrity Directory Lifestyle Find out more Parenting Motoring Travel Food & Drink Health Home & Garden Money Business Recruitment Women's Issues Entertainment Find out more Entertainment Gossip Music Movies Sport TV & Soaps DVD Games Bollywood Book Reviews Bizarre Competitions Horoscopes Big Brother Fashion & Beauty Find out more Style News Celebrity Style Beauty Tips Fashion Trends Style Surgery Shopping Lingerie Swimwear Books DVDs Games Blog Music Blog Movies Blog Sport Blog FemaleFirst.co.uk Discussion Board Quick Chat † Board index ã FemaleFirst Members ã Politics And Social Issues Change font size Print view SearchÖ FAQ Register Login Obama elected as President Discuss Social and Political issues that are affecting you. Bash the Politicians! Post a reply 146 posts ï Page 5 of 10 ï 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 ... 10 Guest † Re: Obama elected as President by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:14 am in a week or so the excitement will calm down to a low roar and the media will be looking for a new angle on barry. and due to all of the evidence previously uncovered, they won't have to dig very far. give it a couple of weeks, maybe a month and watch the media smears begin against barry hussein. Top Guest † Re: Obama elected as President by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:16 am andy martin still has his nov 18 court thing in hawaii coming up don't forget he has vowed to follow through on his quest to get barry's birth certificate, and the truth, out in the open. Top Guest † Re: Obama elected as President by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:22 am I'm loving this seeing the racist t**** like ras, Lynnie, Krazy Diamond, & Skeletrout go hog wild nuts with their racist agenda. Don't expect the rest of us on the board to forgive your racist bullying tactics. We won't. Tough titties you racist pigs. And I supported McCain however even HE disavows your fundy asses. Top Guest † Re: Obama elected as President by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:22 am Guest wrote:the media knows the big(ger) story is going to be barry's fraudulent candidacy - but they will have to wait a bit before that angle starts to surface - it will look less shady on their part. also they will begin to highlight his serious ties to the terrorists, nation of islam, etc. in other words, they ain't gonna miss the chance for a story. They sure didn't waste anytime digging into Sarah Palin's laundry. Maybe they liked her panties better. So, it the birth certificate things comes through and he's proven to not be US born....will be be impeached and sent home? Top Guest † Re: Obama elected as President by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:27 am This will be the last his supporters will hear from him I bet........LOL Posted Nov. 4, 2008 @ 11:59PM- Barack sends a thank you email to supporters. From: Barack Obama Sent: Nov 4, 2008 11:19 PM Subject: How this happened I'm about to head to Grant Park to talk to everyone gathered there, but I wanted to write to you first. We just made history. And I don't want you to forget how we did it. You made history every single day during this campaign -- every day you knocked on doors, made donations, or talked to your family, friends, and neighbors about why you believe it's time of change. I want to thank all of you who gave your time, talent, and passion to this campaign. We have a lot of work to do to get our country back on track, and I'll be in touch soon about what comes next. But I want to be very clear about one thing... All of this happened because of you. Thank you, Barack Top Guest † Re: Obama elected as President by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:29 am His speech was amazing. Very emotional. And did you see the diverse crowd? Now that's what I'm talking about. Unity! Top Guest † Re: by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:29 am So, it the birth certificate things comes through and he's proven to not be US born....will be be impeached and sent home? I don't know how that is going to work......... if Hawaii has laws that keep "average citizens" from viewing birth certificates, maybe the lawsuit will now be filed in a federal court? I don't know. I do know that Martin has vowed to see this through no matter. Top Guest † Re: Obama elected as President by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:30 am Guest wrote: Guest wrote:the media knows the big(ger) story is going to be barry's fraudulent candidacy - but they will have to wait a bit before that angle starts to surface - it will look less shady on their part. also they will begin to highlight his serious ties to the terrorists, nation of islam, etc. in other words, they ain't gonna miss the chance for a story. They sure didn't waste anytime digging into Sarah Palin's laundry. Maybe they liked her <A HREF='http://www.femalefirst.co.uk/catalog/' target='_blank'>panties</A> better. So, it the birth certificate things comes through and he's proven to not be US born....will be be impeached and sent home? The birth cert was verified. Anywhoo. McCain was born in Panama. Top Guest † by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:31 am yep everyone of his speeches have been 'amazing'. barry is a great speaker, but that's all he is. Top birth certificate † Re: Obama elected as President by birth certificate on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:37 am Obama's Birth Certificate Verified By David Knowles Nov 3rd 2008 9:32AM Filed Under:eRepublicans, Barack Obama, Breaking News, 2008 President One of the stranger stories to come out of this year's election was the widely e-mailed claim that Barack Obama was ineligible to run for president because he was not actually born on U.S. soil. Our constitution, you see, requires that our presidents be "natural-born" citizens. John McCain, of course, was born in Panama, though, because that event took place on a U.S. military base, it passes constitutional muster. The unfounded, conspiratorial charge that Obama was hiding his birth certificate got a whole lot of people who were already upset at Obama even more upset. Call it the bitter icing on the bitter cake. These folks screaming about the birth certificate are the same ones who believe that we don't know the "real Obama." Obama's campaign released copies of the birth certificate to the media, but that wasn't good enough for the lunatic fringe. After all, the campaign might have doctored the copies! So, all across the country crazy people started filing lawsuits to get the state of Hawai'i to break its own laws and show off the original document. Well, on Friday, the Director of Hawaii's Department of Health, Dr. Chimoye Fukino, finally got tired of listening to ridiculous chorus coming from McCain/Palin supporters and he went to personally inspect the original birth certificate. Fukino said she and the registrar of vital statistics, Alvin Onaka, have personally verified that the health department holds Obama's original birth certificate. "Therefore, I as Director for the State of Hawai'i, along with the Registrar of Vital Statistics who has statutory authority to oversee and maintain these type of vital records, have personally seen and verified that the Hawai'i State Department of Health has Sen. Obama's original birth certificate on record in accordance with state policies and procedures, Fukino said. Fukino said that no state official, including Gov. Linda Lingle, ever instructed that Obama's certificate be handled differently from any other. Will this satisfy the skeptics out there in McCain-land? Of course not. I mean, really, Chimoye Fukino? What kind of name is that? Sounds even worse than Barack Hussein Obama. No, no, they'll tell you. Something's fishy. Isn't it suspect that Obama's grandmother (yes, the one who died of cancer today) happened to break her hip and get sick just as this latest in a seemingly never-ending series of bogus lawsuits was running its course? No, something nefarious is lurking just under the surface. If it takes the Palin/McCain mob the next eight years to find it, by golly, they will. http://news.aol.com/political-machine/2008/11/03/obamas-birth-certificate-verified/ Top Guest † Re: Obama by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:38 am http://www.audacityofhypocrisy.com/2008 ... -of-times/ this might be how he won......... sad Top Skeletrout Demigod † Posts: 9367 Joined: Thu Apr 12, 2007 12:09 am Re: Obama elected as President by Skeletrout on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:39 am Guest wrote:I'm loving this seeing the racist t**** like ras, Lynnie, Krazy Diamond, & Skeletrout go hog wild nuts with their racist agenda. Don't expect the rest of us on the board to forgive your racist bullying tactics. We won't. Tough titties you racist pigs. And I supported McCain however even HE disavows your fundy asses. What the fuk are you talking about nutjob? I've never said a single solitary racist thing on this board and I dare you to prove otherwise. I'm always defending Z from the racist Zaharamustdie freak. So shut the fuk up behind your cowardly as usual "guest" posting. You're pathetic with your list of names and proves what a psycho you are too. I didn't make it a habit to commit to memory any of the anti's names who sided with me or against me politically because I'm not a psycho little troll like you. Go hang out with Clooniqua you have a lot in common and I'm not just talking abou the way you vote. Top Guest † Re: by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:40 am Guest wrote:yep everyone of his speeches have been 'amazing'. barry is a great speaker, but that's all he is. No, he's also the [b]President of the United States of America [/b]and Leader or the Free World. That's a lot more then just being an "amazing" speaker. Top Guest † by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:43 am to the poster above, obama posted a complete fraudulent birth certificate on his website. the one he posted was a computer laser printed copy of a birth certificate. ya think we had laser printers in 1961? Nope. the one he posted was compared to a real hawaii certificate and the ahem, template was even off line. once he was busted that is when andy martin went to hawaii to get the real one and that is when it was sealed so no one could actually view it. his "real" birth certificate exists....... but he has tried everything in the book to get the lawsuits dismissed as well as have the real one sealed. for right now, and right now ONLY, it is sealed by the gov of Hawaii. The new re filed lawsuit will seek to have that one, the real one, unsealed. now ask yourself, poster, IF there wasn't info on the real one that barry didn't want voters to see........ dontcha think he would have coughed it up long long ago? Top Guest † Re: Re: by Guest on Wed Nov 05, 2008 8:43 am Guest wrote: Guest wrote:yep everyone of his speeches have been 'amazing'. barry is a great speaker, but that's all he is. No, he's also the [b]President of the United States of America [/b]and Leader or the Free World. That's a lot more then just being an "amazing" speaker. Leader of the free world? Wow, you Americans really think highly of yourselves...... Top PreviousNext Display posts from previous: All posts1 day7 days2 weeks1 month3 months6 months1 year Sort by AuthorPost timeSubject AscendingDescending Post a reply 146 posts ï Page 5 of 10 ï 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 ... 10 Return to Politics And Social Issues Jump to: Select a forum ------------------ FemaleFirst Members † †Members Chit-Chat † †Games † †ShowBiz News † †Stupid Zone † †Sex Matters † †Members Advice † †Same Sex Room † †Relationship † †Improving Sex † †Parenting † †Pregnancy Members † †Bitch 'N' † †Politics And Social Issues † †Members' Photo † †Computer Problem Solver † †Your Dreams † †Fashion † †Beauty Reviews General † †General Chit-Chat † †Weddings † †Competition Forum † †Freebies † †Family † †Sex (Better Sex) Issues † †Horoscopes † †Motoring † †Politics † †Just for Men † †Stupid Posts † †Pregnancy † †Relationships † †Fashion & Beauty † †Travel † †Health † †WebChats Films and Celebrity † †Film (News Views & Reviews) † †Music Reviews † †TV and Soaps † †Celebrity & Entertainment News † †Celebrity Fashion † †Angelina Jolie, Brad Pitt Section † †X Factor † †Big Brother Who is online Users browsing this forum: No registered users and 0 guests Board index The team ï Delete all board cookies ï All times are UTC [ DST ] Powered by phpBB © 2000-2008 phpBB Group Advertisement email Please type a valid email address Join the Mailing list Daily Monthly Advertisement The Changing Roles of Gary Oldman Amanda Seyfried Wants Comedy Role Winnie The Pooh: The Music Drew Barrymore's New Movie Not Rom-Com New Cowboys & Aliens Trailer